## 1.3.1 
> Add a method isFull() to FixedCapacityStackOfStrings.

```java
public boolean isFull() {
  return N == a.length;
}
```

## 1.3.2 
> Give the output printed by java Stack for the input

`it was - the best - of times - - - it was - the - -`

Answer is:

`to be not that or be (2 left on stack)`

## 1.3.3 
> Suppose that a client performs an intermixed sequence of (stack) push and pop
operations. The push operations put the integers 0 through 9 in order onto the stack;
the pop operations print out the return values. Which of the following sequence(s)
could not occur?
```bash
a. 4 3 2 1 0 9 8 7 6 5
b. 4 6 8 7 5 3 2 9 0 1
c. 2 5 6 7 4 8 9 3 1 0
d. 4 3 2 1 0 5 6 7 8 9
e. 1 2 3 4 5 6 9 8 7 0
f. 0 4 6 5 3 8 1 7 2 9
g. 1 4 7 9 8 6 5 3 0 2
h. 2 1 4 3 6 5 8 7 9 0
```

**TODO**

## 1.3.4 
> Write a stack client Parentheses that reads in a text stream from standard input
and uses a stack to determine whether its parentheses are properly balanced. 
> For example, your program should print true for [()]{}{[()()]()} and false for [(]). 

```java
static boolean areBalanced(String expr) {
 Stack < Character > stack = new Stack < Character > ();

 // Traversing the Expression
 for (int i = 0; i < expr.length(); i++) {
  char x = expr.charAt(i);

  if (x == '(' || x == '[' || x == '{') {
   // Push the element in the stack
   stack.push(x);
   continue;
  }

  if (stack.isEmpty())
   return false;

  switch (x) {
   case ')':
    stack.pop();
    if (x != '(')
     return false;
    break;

   case '}':
    stack.pop();
    if (x != '{')
     return false;
    break;

   case ']':
    stack.pop();
    if (x != '[')
     return false;
    break;
  }
 }

 return (stack.isEmpty());
}
```

## 1.3.6 
> What does the following code fragment do to the queue q?

```java
Stack<String> stack = new Stack<String>();
while (!q.isEmpty())
 stack.push(q.dequeue());
while (!stack.isEmpty())
 q.enqueue(stack.pop());
```

**TODO**

## 1.3.7 

> Add a method peek() to Stack that returns the most recently inserted item on
the stack (without popping it).

**TODO**

## 1.3.8 

> Give the contents and size of the array for DoublingStackOfStrings with the
input

`it was - the best - of times - - - it was - the - -`

**TODO**

## 1.3.9 

> Write a program that takes from standard input an expression without left parentheses and prints the equivalent infix expression with the parentheses inserted. For
example, given the input:
>
`1 + 2 ) * 3 - 4 ) * 5 - 6 ) ) )`

> your program should print

`( ( 1 + 2 ) * ( ( 3 - 4 ) * ( 5 - 6 ) )`

**TODO**

## 1.3.10 
> Write a filter InfixToPostfix that converts an arithmetic expression from infix to postfix.

**TODO**

## 1.3.11 
> Write a program EvaluatePostfix that takes a postfix expression from standard input, evaluates it, and prints the value. (Piping the output of your program from
the previous exercise to this program gives equivalent behavior to Evaluate.

**TODO**

## 1.3.12 
> Write an iterable Stack client that has a static method copy() that takes a stack
of strings as argument and returns a copy of the stack. Note : This ability is a prime
example of the value of having an iterator, because it allows development of such functionality without changing the basic API.

**TODO**

## 1.3.13 
> Suppose that a client performs an intermixed sequence of (queue) enqueue and
dequeue operations. The enqueue operations put the integers 0 through 9 in order onto
the queue; the dequeue operations print out the return value. Which of the following
sequence(s) could not occur?

```
a. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
b. 4 6 8 7 5 3 2 9 0 1
c. 2 5 6 7 4 8 9 3 1 0
d. 4 3 2 1 0 5 6 7 8 9
```

**TODO**

## 1.3.14 
> Develop a class ResizingArrayQueueOfStrings that implements the queue
abstraction with a fixed-size array, and then extend your implementation to use array
resizing to remove the size restriction.

**TODO**

## 1.3.15 
> Write a Queue client that takes a command-line argument k and prints the kth
from the last string found on standard input (assuming that standard input has k or
more strings).

**TODO**

## 1.3.16 
> Using readInts() on page 126 as a model, write a static method readDates() for
Date that reads dates from standard input in the format specified in the table on page 119
and returns an array containing them.

**TODO**

## 1.3.17 
> Do Exercise 1.3.16 for Transaction.

**TODO**

## 1.3.19 
> Give a code fragment that removes the last node in a linked list whose first node
is first.

**TODO**

## 1.3.20 
> Write a method delete() that takes an int argument k and deletes the kth element in a linked list, if it exists.

**TODO**

## 1.3.21 
> Write a method find() that takes a linked list and a string key as arguments
and returns true if some node in the list has key as its item field, false otherwise.

**TODO**

## 1.3.24 
> Write a method removeAfter() that takes a linked-list Node as argument and
removes the node following the given one (and does nothing if the argument or the next
field in the argument node is null).

**TODO**

## 1.3.25 
> Write a method insertAfter() that takes two linked-list Node arguments and
inserts the second after the first on its list (and does nothing if either argument is null).

**TODO**

## 1.3.26 
> Write a method remove() that takes a linked list and a string key as arguments
and removes all of the nodes in the list that have key as its item field.

**TODO**

## 1.3.27 
> Write a method max() that takes a reference to the first node in a linked list as
argument and returns the value of the maximum key in the list. Assume that all keys are
positive integers, and return 0 if the list is empty.

**TODO**

## 1.3.28 
> Develop a recursive solution to the previous question.

**TODO**

## 1.3.29 
> Write a Queue implementation that uses a circular linked list, which is the same
as a linked list except that no links are null and the value of last.next is first whenever the list is not empty. 
Keep only one Node instance variable (last).

**TODO**

## 1.3.31 
> Implement a nested class DoubleNode for building doubly-linked lists, where
each node contains a reference to the item preceding it and the item following it in the
list (null if there is no such item). Then implement static methods for the following
tasks: insert at the beginning, insert at the end, remove from the beginning, remove
from the end, insert before a given node, insert after a given node, and remove a given
node.

**TODO**

## 1.3.32 
> Steque. A stack-ended queue or steque is a data type that supports push, pop, and
enqueue. Articulate an API for this ADT. Develop a linked-list-based implementation.

**TODO**

## 1.3.33 
> Deque. A double-ended queue or deque (pronounced “deck”) is like a stack or
a queue but supports adding and removing items at both ends. A deque stores a collection of items and supports the following API:
```java
public class Deque<Item> implements Iterable<Item>
Deque() create an empty deque
boolean isEmpty() is the deque empty?
int size() number of items in the deque
void pushLeft(Item item) add an item to the left end
void pushRight(Item item) add an item to the right end
Item popLeft() remove an item from the left end
Item popRight() remove an item from the right end
API for a generic double-ended queue
```

> Write a class Deque that uses a doubly-linked list to implement this API and a class
ResizingArrayDeque that uses a resizing array.

**TODO**

## 1.3.34 
> Random bag. A random bag stores a collection of items and supports the following API:

```java
public class RandomBag<Item> implements Iterable<Item>
RandomBag() create an empty random bag
boolean isEmpty() is the bag empty?
int size() number of items in the bag
void add(Item item) add an item
```

> Write a class RandomBag that implements this API. Note that this API is the same as for
Bag, except for the adjective random, which indicates that the iteration should provide 
the items in random order (all N ! permutations equally likely, for each iterator). Hint :
Put the items in an array and randomize their order in the iterator’s constructor.

**TODO**

## 1.3.35 
> Random queue. A random queue stores a collection of items and supports the
following API:

```java
public class RandomQueue<Item>
RandomQueue() create an empty random queue
boolean isEmpty() is the queue empty?
void enqueue(Item item) add an item
Item dequeue() remove and return a random item
(sample without replacement)
Item sample() return a random item, but do not remove
(sample with replacement)
```

> Write a class RandomQueue that implements this API. Hint : Use an array representation
(with resizing). To remove an item, swap one at a random position (indexed 0 through
N-1) with the one at the last position (index N-1). Then delete and return the last object, as in ResizingArrayStack. Write a client that deals bridge hands (13 cards each)
using RandomQueue<Card>.

**TODO**

## 1.3.36 
> Random iterator. Write an iterator for RandomQueue<Item> from the previous
exercise that returns the items in random order. 

**TODO**

## 1.3.37 
> Josephus problem. In the Josephus problem from antiquity, N people are in dire
straits and agree to the following strategy to reduce the population. They arrange themselves in a circle (at positions numbered from 0 to N–1) and proceed around the circle,
eliminating every Mth person until only one person is left. Legend has it that Josephus
figured out where to sit to avoid being eliminated. Write a Queue client Josephus that
takes N and M from the command line and prints out the order in which people are
eliminated (and thus would show Josephus where to sit in the circle).
% java Josephus 7 2
1 3 5 0 4 2 6

**TODO**

## 1.3.38 
> Delete kth element. Implement a class that supports the following API:
```java
public class GeneralizedQueue<Item>
GeneralizedQueue() create an empty queue
boolean isEmpty() is the queue empty?
void insert(Item x) add an item
Item delete(int k) delete and return the kth least recently inserted item
```
> First, develop an implementation that uses an array implementation, and then develop
one that uses a linked-list implementation. Note : the algorithms and data structures
that we introduce in Chapter 3 make it possible to develop an implementation that
can guarantee that both insert() and delete() take time prortional to the logarithm
of the number of items in the queue—see Exercise 3.5.27.

**TODO**

## 1.3.39 
> Ring buffer. A ring buffer, or circular queue, is a FIFO data structure of a fixed
size N. It is useful for transferring data between asynchronous processes or for storing
log files. When the buffer is empty, the consumer waits until data is deposited; when the
buffer is full, the producer waits to deposit data. Develop an API for a RingBuffer and
an implementation that uses an array representation (with circular wrap-around).

**TODO**

## 1.3.40 
> Move-to-front. Read in a sequence of characters from standard input and
maintain the characters in a linked list with no duplicates. When you read in a previously unseen character, insert it at the front of the list. When you read in a duplicate
character, delete it from the list and reinsert it at the beginning. Name your program
MoveToFront: it implements the well-known move-to-front strategy, which is useful for
caching, data compression, and many other applications where items that have been
recently accessed are more likely to be reaccessed.

**TODO**

## 1.3.41 
> Copy a queue. Create a new constructor so that

`Queue<Item> r = new Queue<Item>(q);`

makes r a reference to a new and independent copy of the queue q. You should be able
to push and pop from either q or r without influencing the other. Hint : Delete all of the
elements from q and add these elements to both q and r.

**TODO**
## 1.3.42 
> Copy a stack. Create a new constructor for the linked-list implementation of
Stack so that

`Stack<Item> t = new Stack<Item>(s);`

> makes t a reference to a new and independent copy of the stack s.

**TODO**

## 1.3.43 
> Listing files. A folder is a list of files and folders. Write a program that takes the
name of a folder as a command-line argument and prints out all of the files contained
in that folder, with the contents of each folder recursively listed (indented) under that
folder’s name. Hint : Use a queue, and see java.io.File.

**TODO**

## 1.3.44 
> Text editor buffer. Develop a data type for a buffer in a text editor that implements the following API:
```java
public class Buffer
Buffer() create an empty buffer
void insert(char c) insert c at the cursor position
char delete() delete and return the character at the cursor
void left(int k) move the cursor k positions to the left
void right(int k) move the cursor k positions to the right
int size() number of characters in the buffer
```
> Hint : Use two stacks.

**TODO**

## 1.3.46 
> Forbidden triple for stack generability. Prove that a permutation can be generated by a stack (as in the previous question) if and only if it has no forbidden triple (a, b,
c) such that a < b < c with c first, a second, and b third (possibly with other intervening
integers between c and a and between a and b).
Partial solution: Suppose that there is a forbidden triple (a, b, c). Item c is popped before
a and b, but a and b are pushed before c. Thus, when c is pushed, both a and b are on
the stack. Therefore, a cannot be popped before b.

**TODO**

## 1.3.47 
> Catenable queues, stacks, or steques. Add an extra operation catenation that (destructively) concatenates two queues, stacks, or steques (see Exercise 1.3.32). Hint : Use
a circular linked list, maintaining a pointer to the last item.

**TODO**

## 1.3.48 
> Two stacks with a deque. Implement two stacks with a single deque so that each
operation takes a constant number of deque operations (see Exercise 1.3.33).

**TODO**

## 1.3.49 
> Queue with three stacks. Implement a queue with three stacks so that each
queue operation takes a constant (worst-case) number of stack operations. Warning :
high degree of difficulty

**TODO**